CSES Increasing Subsequences II Revision II (#604)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/CSES Increasing Subsequence II.mdx

id: cses-1748
source: CSES
title: Increasing Subsequence II
author: Benjamin Qi, Óscar Garries, Timothy Gao
---

> Let $dp[i]$ be the number of increasing subsequences of $x$ ending on the right at index $i$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let $dp[i]$ be the number of increasing subsequences of $x$ ending on the right of index $i$.
```

> Notice that $dp[i]$ can be calculated as the summation of all $dp[j]$ such that $j < i$ and $x_j < x_i$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that $dp[i]$ can be calculated as the summation of all $dp[j]$ where $j < i$ and $x_j < x_i$.
```

Naively, this gives an $\mathcal O(N^2)$ solution. In order to speed this up, we can
coordinate compress, then range sum.

> More specifically, we sort all numbers in $x$ and map each distinct number to its index in the sorted array. This way, we effectively coordinate compress the numbers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More specifically, we sort all numbers in $x$ and map each distinct number to its index in the sorted array. This is known as coordinate compression, and it makes the range of the numbers significantly smaller.
```

> With this, we can create a [BIT](https://usaco.guide/gold/PURS), which intially starts with all 0s. As we run through $x$ from left to right, $dp[i]$ would be summation of all $j<k$ in the BIT, where $k$ is the index $x_i$ maps to. Then, we update $k$ in the BIT as preparation for the next query by another number. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this, we can create a [BIT](https://usaco.guide/gold/PURS), where each value is initially 0. As we iterate through $x$, $dp[i]$ would be the sum of the values at positions $j<k$ in the BIT, where $k$ is the index that $x_i$ maps to. We then increase position $k$ in the BIT by $dp[i]$ as preparation for the next element of $x$. 
```

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(NlogN)$

Reviewer: Move this line to the top of the solution
